# cytoExplorerExcerpt
An excerpt from my Summer 2015 REU project with the BU Bioinformatics Department (BRITE REU).
My project was to extract patterns from protein sequence data from the OFOR enzyme family. I was given an existing version of cytoExplorer, written by Daniel Bak (2013) and Phillip Steindel (2014) of the Boston University Chemisty Department, and asked to update the software for my purposes. Cytoexpolorer contains many more files and directories, but this is a self-contained excerpt of part of my coding.

The code I want to showcase in this example is in organizeHMMSearch.py and organizejackhmmer.py.
databaseMethods.py and jackhmmerparse.py are called in the other two functions, thus I included them for reference.
sampleHMMEROutput.txt is a text file showing the information and formatting which results from running the HMMER program modules on a set of protein sequence data.

Quick discussion of organizeHMMSearch and organizejackhmmer:
organizeHMMSearch and organizejackhmmer are two python scripts which serve similar purposes. Overall, both scripts use the output from a Profile Hidden Markov Model (HMM) as given by a separate software package, HMMER (http://hmmer.janelia.org/), and insert the most important information from this output into an existing SQLite database. HMMSearch and jackhmmer are two different types of HMM that the HMMER software can perform, and they are used to see how similar every protein sequence from a large set of protein sequences is to one given protein sequence. The reason both organizejackhmmer.py and organizeHMMERSearch.py are needed to insert the output into a database is because HMMSearch is supported by a useful python package, Biopython (http://biopython.org/wiki/Main_Page), but jackhmmer is not. Thus, it was possible for me to directly extract information out of the HMMSearch results using instance methods provided by Biopython, but not out of jackhmmer. In order to get around this, I wrote text parsing code to extract the same information from the jackhmmer output file (jackhmmerparse.py) before using similar methods in organizejackhmmer to put relevant information into the SQLite database. The relevant information which was needed was a protein sequence's gi (identification number), starting and ending location of a sequence alignment (the location where the protein sequences were similar), and the E-value or score (a score of how similar the two protein sequences are).
